---
layout: post
title: "Open-Door Policy"
categories: blog
---

There's a story about some of the old Bell Labs offices that is told by
Richard Hamming in his lecture
[You and your Research](http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/YouAndYourResearch.html) [^1]
given at the Bell Communications Research Colloquium Seminar 
in 1986:

> Another trait, it took me a while to notice. I noticed the following facts
	about people who work with the door open or the door closed. I notice that if
	you have the door to your office closed, you get more work done today and
	tomorrow, and you are more productive than most. But 10 years later somehow you
	don't know quite know what problems are worth working on; all the hard work you
	do is sort of tangential in importance. He who works with the door open gets
	all kinds of interruptions, but he also occasionally gets clues as to what the
	world is and what might be important. Now I cannot prove the cause and effect
	sequence because you might say, "The closed door is symbolic of a closed mind."
	I don't know. But I can say there is a pretty good correlation between those
	who work with the doors open and those who ultimately do important things,
	although people who work with doors closed often work harder. Somehow they seem
	to work on slightly the wrong thing - not much, but enough that they miss fame.

<!--more-->

The lesson here, for me, is that you need to be very careful that you
aren't creating a closed-space for yourself, otherwise you may be inadvertently
left behind when it comes to crucial trends and incidental information
that ends up being the linchpin for deciding on new directions and
investigating new ideas.

Of course, in an office environment where the choice is between having your
door open, or having it closed, it's clear when you are putting yourself
in a bubble. Maybe we need to update this observation for the modern
workplace:

## Obvious Closed Doors

* Closed office door

Ha-ha. Nobody has a private office anymore... :(

* Remote work

Remote work seems to have had the downsides in terms of productivity
and business impact examined quite closely, however, what is the
impact on the individual? Could they be closing their door by
working remotely? This seems like it could be the closest analog to
the original phenomenon in common practice today.

* Odd hours

Although you could still have a large overlap of time spent with
your colleagues, there may be a consistent, crucial time of day where
people relax, shoot the shit and discuss great (and terrible) new
ideas. If you keep a consistent, odd schedule, then you may miss
out on this recurring opportunity.

## Insidious Closed Doors

* Yes Men

Putting yourself in an echo chamber is quite hard to do, but it is
possible, and will you know when you've done it?

* Hyper-Focus

Building the ability to focus single-mindedly on a task is a skill
that most people would claim they are attempting to attain, but
once possessing this skill, or even while attempting to acquire it
there is a possibility that they could believe that because they
immerse themselves in the world, that they will be present in the
world. In reality they could be in a closed-space in their own head.

* Pervasive Negativity

There are ways in which you can feel you are being rational, or honest which
seem like the only downside would be filtering out people you wouldn't want to
converse with anyway... Well, I've lost count of the number of times I've
simply stopped attempting to make meaningful conversation with these people
after concluding that most interactions with them were going to be unpleasant
in the future. I know that I'm not the only one doing this. Do they know that
they are working in a closed-space?

## Conclusions

It's important to keep in mind that the pitfalls I'm trying to identify
here are really for the individual. They should not be used by teams
and leaders to push for conformity, oppressive work environments, or
9-5 culture. But as with most choices, it helps to weigh up the pros
and cons. There may be a hidden down-side in some of these scenarios
that you can take into account when you might otherwise end up
inadvertently closing a door.

Of course, when the lecture was given the world was a different place.
It's certainly possible that in today's more connected environment
the danger isn't as great for missing out on trends and information.
But I feel that the abstract danger is still there.
Losing touch with collaborators within your grasp, missing out on
building an understanding of the local zeitgeist, and even simply
failing to gain impressions from body-language and tenor for how
compelling certain trends, views, and arguments are with your
peers.

[^1]: <http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~robins/YouAndYourResearch.html>
